.TH LIMINE-MANAGER 8 "July 2026" "limine-manager 1.5.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
limine-manager \- generate and safely maintain Limine menus for Arch Linux snapshots
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B limine-manager
.RI [ options ]
.I command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B limine-manager
inspects an Arch Linux system, discovers installed kernels and Snapper snapshots, validates the boot layout, renders a deterministic Limine configuration, and can install it atomically with backups and rollback.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show command help and exit.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
Show the program version and exit.
.TP
.BR --config " " PATH
Use an alternative configuration file.
.TP
.BR --backup " " PATH
Select a managed backup for the restore command.
.TP
.BR --verbose
Print additional diagnostic information.
.TP
.BR --log-format " " text|json
Select human-readable or newline-delimited JSON diagnostics.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B check-config
Validate configuration syntax and schema without inspecting the system.
.TP
.B validate
Inspect the system and report all validation diagnostics.
.TP
.B themes
List built-in visual themes.
.TP
.B preview
Render the generated configuration to standard output without modifying files.
.TP
.B show-config
Print the effective manager configuration.
.TP
.B status
Report validation, pending configuration changes, and backup state.
.TP
.B plan
Classify the required action as unchanged, create, or update.
.TP
.B diff
Print a unified diff against the installed configuration.
.TP
.B dry-run
Print the plan and diff without writing.
.TP
.B apply
Install the generated configuration atomically. Root privileges are required only when changes exist.
.TP
.B refresh
Validate, render, compare, and apply the generated configuration when changed. This is the canonical non-interactive synchronization command for automation.
.TP
.B request-refresh
Record a pending asynchronous refresh request for event sources such as Snapper plugins or pacman hooks.
.TP
.B automation-status
Report read-only automation configuration and detectable installed integration files.
.TP
.B rollback-status
Inspect whether the currently booted Btrfs root is the normal root, a managed Snapper snapshot, or an unknown subvolume.
.TP
.B rollback-plan
Print the non-destructive Btrfs rollback plan. No subvolumes are modified.
.TP
.B rollback
Replace the main Btrfs root subvolume from the currently booted managed Snapper snapshot. Root privileges are required.
.TP
.B list-backups
List managed backups, newest first.
.TP
.B restore
Restore the newest managed backup, or the backup selected with --backup.
.TP
.B prune-backups
Apply the configured backup-retention policy.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success or no pending changes.
.TP
.B 1
Detection, validation, or application failure.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid command-line usage.
.TP
.B 3
Valid pending changes for status, plan, diff, or dry-run.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/limine-manager/limine-manager.conf
Optional system configuration. Schema version 1 is stable for the 1.x release series.
.TP
.I /boot/limine.conf
Default Limine target configuration.
.TP
.I /etc/kernel/cmdline
Default canonical kernel command line.
.TP
.I /run/limine-manager/refresh.pending
Runtime marker used to coalesce asynchronous refresh requests.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/snapper/plugins/90-limine-manager
Lightweight Snapper plugin adapter installed by limine-manager.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/limine-manager-refresh.service
systemd unit that runs the centralized refresh operation.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/limine-manager-refresh.timer
systemd debounce timer for asynchronous refresh requests.
.SH SECURITY
The apply and restore operations reject symbolic-link targets, acquire an exclusive lock, create synchronized backups, write a temporary file in the target directory, use atomic rename, synchronize the directory, verify installed bytes, and attempt rollback after a late failure.
.PP
The rollback operation is separate from restore. Restore only reinstalls a managed backup of /boot/limine.conf. Rollback changes Btrfs subvolumes: it refuses to run from the normal root, mounts the Btrfs top-level with subvolid=5, creates a writable replacement from the booted snapshot, preserves the previous main root under a unique limine-manager recovery name, verifies the resulting topology, regenerates limine.conf, and requires a reboot. This is a phased recovery design, not a single atomic Btrfs transaction.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR limine (1),
.BR snapper (8),
.BR findmnt (8),
.BR pacman (8)
