.TH LIMINE-MANAGER 8 "July 2026" "limine-manager 1.0.1" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
limine-manager \- generate and safely maintain Limine menus for Arch Linux snapshots
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B limine-manager
.RI [ options ]
.I command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B limine-manager
inspects an Arch Linux system, discovers installed kernels and Snapper snapshots, validates the boot layout, renders a deterministic Limine configuration, and can install it atomically with backups and rollback.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show command help and exit.
.TP
.BR -V ", " --version
Show the program version and exit.
.TP
.BR --config " " PATH
Use an alternative configuration file.
.TP
.BR --backup " " PATH
Select a managed backup for the restore command.
.TP
.BR --verbose
Print additional diagnostic information.
.TP
.BR --log-format " " text|json
Select human-readable or newline-delimited JSON diagnostics.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B check-config
Validate configuration syntax and schema without inspecting the system.
.TP
.B validate
Inspect the system and report all validation diagnostics.
.TP
.B preview
Render the generated configuration to standard output without modifying files.
.TP
.B show-config
Print the effective manager configuration.
.TP
.B status
Report validation, pending configuration changes, and backup state.
.TP
.B plan
Classify the required action as unchanged, create, or update.
.TP
.B diff
Print a unified diff against the installed configuration.
.TP
.B dry-run
Print the plan and diff without writing.
.TP
.B apply
Install the generated configuration atomically. Root privileges are required only when changes exist.
.TP
.B list-backups
List managed backups, newest first.
.TP
.B restore
Restore the newest managed backup, or the backup selected with --backup.
.TP
.B prune-backups
Apply the configured backup-retention policy.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success or no pending changes.
.TP
.B 1
Detection, validation, or application failure.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid command-line usage.
.TP
.B 3
Valid pending changes for status, plan, diff, or dry-run.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/limine-manager/limine-manager.conf
Optional system configuration. Schema version 1 is stable for the 1.x release series.
.TP
.I /boot/limine.conf
Default Limine target configuration.
.TP
.I /etc/kernel/cmdline
Default canonical kernel command line.
.SH SECURITY
The apply and restore operations reject symbolic-link targets, acquire an exclusive lock, create synchronized backups, write a temporary file in the target directory, use atomic rename, synchronize the directory, verify installed bytes, and attempt rollback after a late failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR limine (1),
.BR snapper (8),
.BR findmnt (8),
.BR pacman (8)
